RK-14345 node serverless tutorial (#622)
Rookout/docs: docs/node-serverless-tutorial.mdx

---
id: node-serverless-tutorial

> title: "Deploy Rookout on a Node.JS with 'Serverless-Framework' "

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Deploy Rookout on a Node.JS with 'Serverless-Framework'"
```

Author: done

sidebar_label: Node.JS Serverless
---
This short tutorial will walk you through the perfect Rookout deployment for NodeJS applications with [Serverless-framework](https://www.serverless.com/) in a few quick steps.

### Get Your Application

First things first, choose an application.
If you don't have one readily available, use our [sample application](https://github.com/Rookout/tutorial-nodejs-serverless-2022).

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Start by:

<Tabs
    defaultValue="npm"
    values={[
        {label: "NPM", value: "npm"},
        {label: "Yarn", value: "yarn"},
    ]}
    >
<TabItem value="npm">

```bash

> git clonehttps://github.com/Rookout/tutorial-nodejs-serverless-2022

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/Rookout/tutorial-nodejs-serverless-2022
```

cd tutorial-nodejs-serverless-2022

> npm install

Reviewer 2: Is this needed?

Author: changed

```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="yarn">

```bash

> git clonehttps://github.com/Rookout/tutorial-nodejs-serverless-2022

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/Rookout/tutorial-nodejs-serverless-2022
```

cd tutorial-nodejs-serverless-2022
yarn
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> ### 1. Add the Rookout npm Package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Add the Rookout SDK
```

> Rookout for NodeJS is a simple npm Package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rookout SDK for NodeJS is a simple node module that allows you to run the Rookout agent.
```

Reviewer 2: Short is better then long :)

Reviewer: "The Rookout SDK for NodeJS is a simple node module." is also fine :)

Go ahead and add it as a dependency:

<Tabs
    defaultValue="npm"
    values={[
        {label: "NPM", value: "npm"},
        {label: "Yarn", value: "yarn"},
    ]}
>
<TabItem value="npm">

```bash
npm install --save rookout
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="yarn">

```bash
yarn add rookout
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### 2. Configure Rookout

> Load and start the package to connect to your Rookout account (if you haven't signed up, do that [here](https://app.rookout.com/#mode=signUp)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Load the Rookout module and configure the agent with your Rookout account token (if you haven't signed up yet, you can do that [here](https://app.rookout.com/#mode=signUp)).
```

> The start function returns a promise - wait for it to debug the application initialization code.

Reviewer: What do you mean by "debug the application initialization code"?

Author: not relevant , copied from other

Edit your main file - in our case `handler.js`:

```javascript
const serverless = require("serverless-http") // <-- serverless-framework;
const server = require('./server') //  <-- the http server initializer ;
const rookout = require('rookout/lambda')

module.exports.handler = rookout.wrap(serverless(server), {
    token: '[Your Rookout Token]',
    labels: {env: 'dev'},
});

```

<div className="rookout-org-info" />

> ### 3. Deploy your serverless application

Reviewer 2: This step should have two "versions":
1. One for SLS in general
2. One for our extra work regarding S3

```bash
 sls deploy --nos3sync
```

After deployment is completed successfully, results will be printed out to the console, similar to this:

```bash
Deploying tutorial-node-js-serverless-2022 to stage dev (us-east-1)

✔ Service deployed to stack tutorial-node-js-serverless-2022-dev (70s)

endpoint: ANY - https://xxxxxxxxxx.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com  #  <-- The public endpoint
functions:
  api: tutorial-node-js-serverless-2022-dev-api (16 MB)
```
###### Note: your API is public and can be invoked by anyone. For production deployments, you might want to configure an authorizer

To validate that our endpoint works we can invoke it.
```bash
curl --request POST 'https://xxxxxx.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/todos' --header 'Content-Type: application/json' --data-raw '{"title": "Buy Coffee", "order": 123}'
```

> ### 4. Deploying to s3 and communicate with our serverless functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. Deploying to S3
```

> ### 4. Deploying to s3 and communicate with our serverless functions

Reviewer 2: No step 4

To add UI which interacts with those endpoints. Copy the endpoint printed `https://xxxxxxxxxx.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com` and go to `static/js/app.js` replace all instances of `[lambda_endpoint]` with the copied endpoint link.

In addition, please go to `serverless.yaml` and under `custom.bucketName`, change/select a name of your liking.

When prerequisite are completed run:
```bash
sls deploy
```

> After deployment has been successful we can access it through [https://[bucket-name].s3.amazonaws.com/index.html](https://[bucket-name].s3.amazonaws.com/index.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a successful deployment we can access our function through [https://[bucket-name].s3.amazonaws.com/index.html](https://[bucket-name].s3.amazonaws.com/index.html)
```

> ### Questions?

Reviewer 2: What about auto-source fetching?

Author: What about it ?

Reviewer 3: Either the .git dir or the git url + commit need to be defined for auto fetching to work

provider:
    ...
    environment:
      ROOKOUT_REMOTE_ORIGIN: git@github.com:Rookout/tutorial-nodejs-serverless-2022.git
      ROOKOUT_COMMIT: master

```
##### you can change `ROOKOUT_REMOTE_ORIGIN` to your project's remote origin and update the `ROOKOUT_COMMIT` to any commit in that poject

### 3. Deploy your serverless application

```bash
 sls deploy --nos3sync
```

After deployment is completed successfully, results will be printed out to the console, similar to this:

```bash
Deploying tutorial-node-js-serverless-2022 to stage dev (us-east-1)

✔ Service deployed to stack tutorial-node-js-serverless-2022-dev (70s)

endpoint: ANY - https://xxxxxxxxxx.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com  #  <-- The public endpoint
functions:
  api: tutorial-node-js-serverless-2022-dev-api (16 MB)
```
###### Note: your API is public and can be invoked by anyone. For production deployments, you might want to configure an authorizer

To validate that our endpoint works we can invoke it.
```bash
curl --request POST 'https://xxxxxx.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/todos' --header 'Content-Type: application/json' --data-raw '{"title": "Buy Coffee", "order": 123}'
```

### 4. Deploying to S3

> To add UI which interacts with those endpoints. Copy the endpoint printed `https://xxxxxxxxxx.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com` and go to `static/js/app.js` replace all instances of `[lambda_endpoint]` with the copied endpoint link.

Reviewer 3: @naomirookout I just had an idea. You could add an env var for lambda endpoint and use it in the app, instead of having the users change it in the code.
